Hi, everyone, welcome to the advanced JavaScript Data Structures and Functions chapter.
All right, so what we're going to do in this chapter is we're going to start looking at the at the
aero functions, which I think we have talked about them for a couple of times before.
During your projects, we're going to go over the aero functions, syntax like formally or officially,
and then we are going to talk about six of the the most advanced and higher order array methods.
And then we're going to talk about three object methods in this chapter.
Right.
So we're going to start working with aero functions and then we are going to dive into aero sorry arrays
and then objects.
So aero functions.
We are going to go over four different examples.
The first example, we're going to have a function declaration with no parameters.
So let's go ahead and let's create the function.
And this function is going to create random random numbers.
All right.
From one to 10.
Right.
So it is going to return math dot floor because because the round method, the sorry, the random method
actually creates random numbers from zero to one.
So zero point one zero point two.
So we get decimal to convert them into like integers, like whole numbers.
We are going to use the math, that floor method, and now we are going to write our math that random.
And whenever you do this, it is going to return and it says returns.
And what is this?
I cannot pronounce it so random, pseudo random, pseudo random number between zero and one.
So but we want between zero and 10, so I'm just going to multiply it by 10.
OK, so this is our function declaration.
We are not like mainly concerned with how function sorry, with how function declarations are created
because we know we have created like a ton of them.
We are concerned with how we can change a function declaration, declaration with a change it to a function,
to an error function.
So let us grab the random number, let us grab that random number and store it within that variable.
And I'm going to say consolidate lock and random number random.
Where is it now if I save it?
So each time when I reload, we are going to get a different number, see a different random number.
So how would we go ahead and convert this into an arrow function?
So I'm just going to say air row function.
So for converting this into error function, I'm just going to grab this function and I'm going to paste
it right here and I'm going to tell you how you can convert this into an error function.
Now, keep in mind that error functions.
They are function expressions.
So in order to convert this into an error function, it's copied here.
We need to have a function expression.
So I'm going to remove this function with I'm going to replace it with LAT.
And we have this is the function name and I'm just going to provide a inequality there.
OK, and then you can see that the error functions.
They don't have the function keyword inside of them.
Right.
And I'm going to say you just have to provide a fat error here and now.
That's it.
So this is an error function.
This is how you can convert a function declaration into an error function.
So inside here, you can pass in the parameters so you can have one parameter to parameter three parameters.
Doesn't matter.
You can pass and pass them in there.
Now, this could this might seem like a lot longer way of doing it.
There is actually a I'm just going to write longer.
There is actually shorter version.
And I didn't want to show you that until we got we got the longer version first.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy that and I'm going to paste it and we are going to make
it.
Sure.
So you can see that we are only running one line of code and it is basically saying return.
So we don't need the return key word when it comes to having one line of code and running that line
of code, basically returning that line of code.
We don't need that.
And when it is one line of code, we do not need the curly braces as well.
Right.
And let's remove that space and that's it.
So this is how you can convert an error function into, sorry, a function declaration, into an error
function.
And now what I'm going to do is I'm just going to call it a call.
This a different name and I'm going to say other.
Their random number.
All right, I just called it that and we can store it inside a variable.
And we can say that random number, the same variable.
Let's store the other random number.
All right, inside here.
And now let's consider it on this consolidated log and we have random save it and we get through.
So each time you click, you can see that each time you're going to get a different number.
So this is the first example that we went over.
And the second example, you know what?
I'm just going to copy this entire thing and I'm going to pasted down here.
And we are going to say this is example number two and the example, number two, I'm going to remove
this from here because this is empty.
And the example, number two, well, basically, we don't do anything different.
So I'm just going to go ahead and speed things up.
We just add inside our function declaration.
So where is example no, that's example No.
One, this is example number two.
So inside our function declaration, we just add a parameter in here.
I'm going to grab this copy and put it right here so we know where examples are.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to comment this function back in and I'm going to name it is positive
as positive, positive.
And in here I'm going to pass a number.
And I want this function to return no greater or equal to zero.
OK, and we are going to change the.
We can store it inside this, but that would not be accurate.
So let's grab this is positive.
Let's put it right here and we are going to a result.
So these positive function result is going to be stored within this variable.
And we are going to call the function in here and we need to pass the test positive result inside the
console log so we can see it on the console.
Right.
So, OK, so in here, I need to execute the functions I need to pass on, for example, five.
So five is positive.
If I pass in zero, that's still true.
But if I pass a negative one, we get false because negative one is not positive.
Basically, you know how actually this works.
So we are going to grab this function.
We are going to put it right here.
I'm going to remove the function keyword and I'm going to replace it with light.
So this is going to be the function name.
I'm going to provide an equal sign here.
And then this is this part we are not going to touch.
We are just going to provide a fat error there or what we should we shouldn't call it fat, but just
an error there.
And I could come and this part out and cancel.
OK, here we get is positive has already been declared, so is positive.
Five letters positive equals to this.
We are we just this.
Oh it's because of that we get to see.
But this is the longer version.
Right.
I'm just going to write longer.
We could go ahead and make this shorter.
Keep in mind that this works with return very well.
So if I were to copy this and commented out, come here, let's paste it here.
So because this function is only returning something over there or functions, if you just go ahead
and remove the return key, it is still going to work.
And because this is only one line, we can go ahead and remove that as well.
So this is how short the arrow function can get.
So this was the second example and the third example.
We are going to talk about using two parameters inside the the function declaration part.
So that's.
This is an example, too, so this has got to be our example three.
OK, so I'm going to remove the Arrow function code from here.
I hope you're not getting confused because this is advanced and I'm hoping you're following.
We are just creating function declarations and we are converting them to our functions.
So in here, what I what I'm going to do for the third example is I'm going to create a function called
multiply and we're going to multiply X with Y and we're going to say a return X times Y.
And now let's come in these guys and and let's grab this.
And we are going to say multiply results and the function name is multiply.
Multiply, so we have two parameters, we need to provide two arguments.
So I'm just going to say 15, five times 15, we get 75.
So this is how this function declaration was created.
If we were to convert it to an arrow function, we would say let other multiply.
So this is the function name equal to our parentheses inside which we pass in A and B, our parameter
parameters, and then the arrow itself and then curly braces, because we only have one line of code.
We don't need curly braces.
We just say six times y.
And then we are going to store this inside a variable.
All right, so what I'm going to do is we could store it or we could just go ahead and call it, cancel
that lock, either multiply and Passan, let's say 10 for the for A and 20 for B.
And when I say it says X.
Oh, sorry.
This should be a and this should be.
And now we get 200.
So this syntax is really shorter than the function declaration.
This is only one line, but now this is three lines.
But our functions do have their own place where they should be used.
But it's really good, good idea.
If you have, like, very minimal lines of code, you can use our functions, but.
Using our functions, if you are a beginner, might not be a good idea because it is really, really
a short syntax and you need to be really comfortable with this syntax to not to not get confused.
That's why my suggestion for you is just go on and keep using function declarations until you are OK
with the function expression, which is this array function, or you can go ahead and mix them up.
It all of them like dun do do not ever let anyone tell you which one is better, which one is not.
It's all an opinion, OK, everyone has their opinions.
You can go ahead and work with any of them.
You can use function declaration, error functions, function expressions.
Either of them is fine.
I myself, I like function declarations that that's why throughout the projects of use function declarations
because they are named.
I know what I'm doing.
I can come up with almost with good names.
I think I can come up with names.
I know naming is really hard in this programming world.
That's why I always use function declarations because the name is going to tell me what it is that I'm
actually trying to do.
And I like the syntax or function declaration better.
It's more readable, more understandable than, let's say, this understanding.
This line is more complicated than understanding Valla.
I mean, we are creating a function and we are storing it inside a variable.
We are calling that variable and then we are executing that variable.
It's a bit more like Hassel, which I don't like.
That's why most of the times I use Ariff sorry, the function declarations.
I do use error function sometimes, but my preferences function declarations.
And for our final example, let me comment everything out.
We are going to go over a callback function, a synchronous callback function, not asynchronous synchronous
callback function.
We are going to get to the asynchronous as well.
So this is going to be example number four.
And you might have noticed that we have a button here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab that button const.
I'm going to say BTN document dot query selector.
Let's grab the button.
And I'm just going to be selected by the element name, right, and we are going to subtract, add event
listener, let's add an event.
The event is Kleck and when the click happens, we want to run a function.
We want to run an error function.
This is how an error function is created.
This is basically the syntax and what is their function going to do?
Their function is going to grab the document, the body and it is going to tap into the world of style.
And from there we are going to grab the background color.
All right, and we are going to change it to green, so whenever this button is collected, the background
color of the body, it should be green.
So click it is green.
We can make this shorter, even shorter, because we are running one line of code so it can just copy
it down below and come in this part out, even though it is not going to be like hopefully it should
be on one line.
So I'm going to remove this curly brace, remove this one from there and save it and cut missing.
Huh.
Let's remove this one.
Let's bring this up on one line.
Let's bring this up, let's say that this rearranges it like this, that's because of the prettier cut
formatter that I have on, but we can shorten to this as well.
And if I click the background, color changes to green.
So that's it for this lecture.
We talked about the error functions.
And for the next several lectures, we are going to go over some very higher order and useful array
methods that you will be using all the time or creating complex applications.
See you guys then.